well we can now speak to khalad mahash
he's a Palestinian lawyer who visited
the Israeli Detention Facility s Taman
where hundreds of Palestinians from Gaza
are currently being held in terrible
conditions he joins us now from um Alam
in Israel khad I understand you finally
managed to visit a detane there the
Palestinian journalist Muhammad Arab
he's been held without charge for a 100
days let's start with what you saw on
your visit
this visit took place after trying for
several times to visit the detention
centers is one of the secret prisons
which is cidan which is a military
detention
center that is under the ministry of
Defense of Israel this was the first
visit Muhammad shared with us a lot of
details and
testimonies about what the det are being
subjected to in this detention centers
they are being subjected to brutal
methods of torture Beyond imaginations
no human being can live under those
conditions Israel is making sure to keep
them tortured and also beaten since the
first day Muhammad shared with us many
details for example he's being
handcuffed and blindfolded 24/7 for over
100 years non-stop they only uh being
able to have his hands free or the
having the removed the shuckles for one
minute when he's take taken a shower
they are allowed to take a shower for
one minute and everyone who exceeds this
minute will be subjected to
torture in a very brutal manner many
other details very desperate details
that Muhammad shared with me that are
Beyond imaginations
I've visited in fact in the past hundred
of uh detainees and prisoners since
October 7 but what I've witnessed and
what I've heard from
Muhammad during the uh visit in the
visit room I was able to notice that he
was sad and I felt helpless because I
couldn't do anything for what Muhammad
and his also other detainees are being
subjected to Muhammad is a journalist as
you know
we used to see him as he used
to report on the situation in
Gaza he used to he did not change his
clothes for over 50 days now he's
wearing the same clothes including
underwear he's not allowed to change his
clothes along with the other detainees
they are also kept in
baracks which are big baracks
Muhammad is being detained with aund
other
detainees they are also they sleep on
the floor they don't have blankets they
do not have pillows they are exposed to
uh hard conditions and this situation
has been on for over 100 days I have a
question are there any people in this
world any free people of this world who
would accept such conditions who would
accept that a human being who's just a
human being that should be handcuffed
and also blindfolded for months
nonstop they are seated all the time
they are not allowed to stand up they
are not allowed to talk to the other
prisoners they have to remain seated
without talking without
moving they remain seated
blindfolded this is very difficult and
challenging indeed and
could cause pain Muhammad came to the
visit completely exhausted physically
exhausted he lost weight
also and because he cannot move his
hands and his legs are not he's not able
to move them because of this uh
situation and this torture he forgot how
he can move his hands and his ankles his
legs this is part of the torture that
Muhammad shared with me in addition to
all the different torture methods that
are being subjected to sir you you speak
about different types of torture I
understand that that recently there have
been allegations of sexual abuse rapes
taking place at this
facility yes we have heard in the media
before that there were rape cases but
today I've also
witnessed firsthand from Muhammad the
details of those rape cases Muhammad
shared with me that during the last
month the IDF
soldiers raped six prisoners in front of
all the other detainees using the most
brutal methods they have raped those
detainees in front of the other
detainees just to take revenge and also
to give a lesson to the other detes in
order to terrorize them this is one
element that is the rape cases
but we have not should not forget about
the medical negligence that is there is
one Health uh Point under this detention
center but there is nothing in this uh
Health Point they are lacking all means
that could be used in order to treat
those detainees there are some doctors
and nurses that are also uh trying to
undergo they are also conducting
surgeries without using
anesthesia they are
also how can you how can someone undergo
a surgery without
anesthesia what Muhammad is suffering
from in this Detention Center along with
the other detainers is brutal and Beyond
imagination that we cannot imagine it in
any world no logic could allow us to
have such a situation I do want to ask
you because we've heard too from the the
health Care staff at that facility about
amputations that have been forced to
take place because of of the use of of
handcuffs for such a long period of time
they've spoken about access the need for
access to detainees I see Israel is now
discussing a plan to replace even Red
Cross visits to Palestinian prisoners
which have been suspended since the
start of the war is there any access or
any plan for access to the detainees
there
this is the first visit that I was
allowed to conduct in my capacity of
Palestinian lawyer I've been allowed to
uh conduct this visit after many efforts
that we have exerted we have sent many
messages and letters until we've been
able to conduct this visit we hope that
the uh all the authorities will allow
all the law practitioners and uh human
inter International organizations also
to uh conduct visits in order to uh
observe and witness the situations and
conditions uh under which all the
detainees are being held so that they
can make their voice heard it is
important to allow lawyers and
international organization to visit the
detention centers and we need also psych
psychologists in order to uh treat those
detainees they need they desperately
need all this they are subjected to
torture they are not even allowed to
talk to each other can you imagine a
detain that is detained for a 100 days
that is not allowed to uh turn right or
left or to talk to anyone they are just
talking to themselves Muhammad is one of
hundred of detainees was allowed to talk
to a lawyer for 45 minutes after those H
days in order to uh ask about his family
and to send his message to the world let
alone the other tens or hundreds of
detention they desperately need the help
of the whole world the whole world
should rally around their case in order
to impose on Israel and ask her to and
urge her to
stop those torture
methods also we
should ask them to the whole world is
supporting Israel as it tries to release
their
hostages thank you very much for sharing
with us what you've seen and heard at
the S Taman facility we've obviously
heard some terrible terrible stories
from there great to get some firsthand
testimony khed mahaj there a Palestinian
lawyer who finally managed to visit one
of his clients at that facility telling
us about the terrible conditions being
faced there thank you so much for
joining
us now a new wave of Israeli attacks
meanwhile in Central and Southern Gaza
has killed and injured several more
Palestinians at least 10 people have
been killed and 30 injured in an Israeli
attack east of Rafa just in the past few
hours Israeli forces are reported to
have shelled a group of civilians the
injured have been taken to the European
Hospital which is already overcrowded
with patients Israeli forces have also
destroyed parts of the Rafa Crossing in
southern Gaza as you can see more than a
month after They seized it video shows
the burnt out buildings including the
main terminal now this was a vital route
for Aid flowing into Gaza from the
Egyptian side but Israel has since been
blocking supplies from getting through
since it took over that Crossing on May
the 7th well let's get the latest now
from our correspondent Tarak abazo he
joins us from darl Bala in central part
of the Gaza Strip tar we know that the
air strikes the the attacks are ongoing
bring us up to speed on on where they've
been taking
place well generally the security
situation of course this trip is
escalating in a very high speed now
within the past hour the Israeli
military has targeted a group of
Palestinians in the Eastern portion of
Rafa City where at least 12 Palestinians
have been reported killed while 30
others being wounded but a surprisingly
what we have been confirmed and even
hearing from the uh Ministry of Health
in alaka hospital that casualties and
victims have been BR from RAF District
to Al AA hospital where we are right now
as civilians were forced to bring the
casualties and driving uh for 25 km
until they can find a proper medical
facility that can provide them with
medical treatment especially that the
European hospital was unable to provide
them with Essential Medical Care those
people who have been critically injured
right now are receiving a treatment
right now inside the department of Al AA
hospital but as I'm talking to you right
now anasia we are surrounded by two
Israeli military qu coped drones that
are flying and hovering in a very low
altitude
in uh the vicinity of the AL AKA
Hospital people here have got a sense of
fear that they might be doing something
or might attack Palestinians within the
coming hours so there is a great
sentiment of uh fear and even
frustration among those Palestinians as
they are no longer can feel secured and
safe especially that we continue to hear
loud Israeli bombardment and attacks and
the northern portion of anarat refugee
camp close to Narin Junction where the
vast majority of Israel operations have
been conducted from that area where
according to gaza's health Ministry at
least more than 24 Palestinians have
been killed within the past 24 hours and
this number is expected to rise within
the coming hours inia T abaz they're
reporting for us from the ground from
Daryl Bal in the Gaza Strip thank you
tarry make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer